README.md, before:

# Build User Vars Plugin

[![Build Status](https://ci.jenkins.io/job/Plugins/job/build-user-vars-plugin/job/master/badge/icon)](https://ci.jenkins.io/job/Plugins/job/build-user-vars-plugin/job/master/)
[![Contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/jenkinsci/build-user-vars-plugin.svg)](https://github.com/jenkinsci/build-user-vars-plugin/graphs/contributors)
[![Jenkins Plugin](https://img.shields.io/jenkins/plugin/v/build-user-vars-plugin.svg)](https://plugins.jenkins.io/build-user-vars-plugin)
[![GitHub release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/jenkinsci/build-user-vars-plugin.svg?label=changelog)](https://github.com/jenkinsci/build-user-vars-plugin/releases/latest)
[![Jenkins Plugin Installs](https://img.shields.io/jenkins/plugin/i/build-user-vars-plugin.svg?color=blue)](https://plugins.jenkins.io/build-user-vars-plugin)

Set of **environment variables** that describe the user who started the build.

## Variables provided

The plugin provides the following environment variables:

| Variable                 | Description                        |
| ------------------------ | ---------------------------------- |
| BUILD\_USER              | Full name (first name + last name) |
| BUILD\_USER\_FIRST\_NAME | First name                         |
| BUILD\_USER\_LAST\_NAME  | Last name                          |
| BUILD\_USER\_ID          | Jenkins user ID                    |
| BUILD\_USER\_GROUPS      | Jenkins user groups                |
| BUILD\_USER\_EMAIL       | Email address                      |

## Usage example

Select *Set Jenkins user build variables* and reference the variables during the build:

![](docs/images/build-user-vars-plugin-sample-usage.png)

## Pipeline Examples

```groovy
node {
  wrap([$class: 'BuildUser']) {
    def user = env.BUILD_USER_ID
  }
}
```

## Changelog

Release notes are available in [GitHub Releases](https://github.com/jenkinsci/build-user-vars-plugin/releases) since July 2020 (build-user-vars plugin 1.6 and later).
Prior release notes are available in the plugin repository [changelog](https://github.com/jenkinsci/build-user-vars-plugin/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md).

## Jenkins core compatibility

This plugin requires Jenkins 2.164.1+.

Commit message:

Global option to add build user variables to the environment for all builds

README.md, after:

# Build User Vars Plugin

[![Build Status](https://ci.jenkins.io/job/Plugins/job/build-user-vars-plugin/job/master/badge/icon)](https://ci.jenkins.io/job/Plugins/job/build-user-vars-plugin/job/master/)
[![Contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/jenkinsci/build-user-vars-plugin.svg)](https://github.com/jenkinsci/build-user-vars-plugin/graphs/contributors)
[![Jenkins Plugin](https://img.shields.io/jenkins/plugin/v/build-user-vars-plugin.svg)](https://plugins.jenkins.io/build-user-vars-plugin)
[![GitHub release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/jenkinsci/build-user-vars-plugin.svg?label=changelog)](https://github.com/jenkinsci/build-user-vars-plugin/releases/latest)
[![Jenkins Plugin Installs](https://img.shields.io/jenkins/plugin/i/build-user-vars-plugin.svg?color=blue)](https://plugins.jenkins.io/build-user-vars-plugin)

Set of **environment variables** that describe the user who started the build.

## Variables provided

The plugin provides the following environment variables:

| Variable                 | Description                        |
| ------------------------ | ---------------------------------- |
| BUILD\_USER              | Full name (first name + last name) |
| BUILD\_USER\_FIRST\_NAME | First name                         |
| BUILD\_USER\_LAST\_NAME  | Last name                          |
| BUILD\_USER\_ID          | Jenkins user ID                    |
| BUILD\_USER\_GROUPS      | Jenkins user groups                |
| BUILD\_USER\_EMAIL       | Email address                      |

## Since 1.8

Set the global option to add build user variables to the environment for all builds (in **Manage Jenkins, Configure System**).

## Usage example

Select *Set Jenkins user build variables* and reference the variables during the build:

![](docs/images/build-user-vars-plugin-sample-usage.png)

## Pipeline Examples

```groovy
node {
  wrap([$class: 'BuildUser']) {
    def user = env.BUILD_USER_ID
  }
}
```

## Changelog

Release notes are available in [GitHub Releases](https://github.com/jenkinsci/build-user-vars-plugin/releases) since July 2020 (build-user-vars plugin 1.6 and later).
Prior release notes are available in the plugin repository [changelog](https://github.com/jenkinsci/build-user-vars-plugin/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md).

## Jenkins core compatibility

This plugin requires Jenkins 2.164.1+.
